---
header-includes: |
    \usepackage{graphicx}
abstract: This is a pandoc test . . . 
---


## Math 152 Learning Target Quiz 7
April 2, 2021

\vspace{0.35in}

Name: __________________________________________________________________________________


**Instructions:** Read the following instructions carefully.

- You do not need to complete every question. Choose the learning targets that are most important for you and focus on those.
- **You must show ALL of your work in order to earn full credit on any of the learning targets.** 
-  You may use any calculator you wish, so long as it does not have communications abilities (e.g., iPods, iPads, smartphones, laptops, etc.) or symbolic manipulation capabilities (e.g., TI-89).
- You may not use any notes, notecards, books, formula sheets, etc.
- Feel free to ask any questions you want -- especially if instructions are unclear, or if you want advice about which learning targets to attempt.




\begin{table}[htp] 
\begin{center} 
\def\arraystretch{2} 
\begin{tabular}{|c|c||c|c|}  \hline
\textbf{Learning Target} & \textbf{Assessment} & \textbf{Learning Target} & \textbf{Assessment}\\\hline
10 &  & 16 & \\\hline
11 &  & 17 &  \\\hline
12 &  & 18 &  \\\hline
13 &  & 19 &  \\\hline
14 &  & 20 &  \\\hline
15 &  & 21 &  \\\hline
\end{tabular}
\end{center} 
\end{table}


\newpage


### Find the equation of a tangent line.

10. Find an equation of the line tangent to $f(x) = \sin(x)$ at the point $(\pi,0)$.


\newpage


### Given information about two or more functions (either graphs or values, but not the equations), answer questions about new functions involving those functions and their derivatives.

11. Values of $f, f', g$, and $g'$ are given in the table. Let $u(x) = f(g(x))$ and $v(x) = f(x)/ g(x)$.



a. Find $u'(3)$.


b. Find $v'(3)$.



\begin{table}[htp]
\centering
\begin{tabular}{lcccc}  
 &  $f(x)$ & $f'(x)$ & $g(x)$ & $g'(x)$  \\\hline
$x=1$ &  3 & 4 & 2 & $6$   \\
$x=2$  & 1 & 5 & 8 & $7$  \\
$x=3$  & 7 & 7 & 2 & $9$  \\\hline
\end{tabular}
\end{table}


\newpage

### Find $dy/dx$ for a function given implicitly.

12. Find $\frac{dy}{dx}$ given $\cos(xy) = 2x + y$.


\newpage

### Use L’Hopital’s Rule to evaluate limits involving indeterminate forms.

13. Find $\lim\limits_{x\to 0} \frac{\sin(x)}{\cos(x)-1}$.



\newpage

### Find the intervals where a function is increasing/decreasing and identify the relative maximums and minimums of the function.

14. Use calculus to find the intervals where the function $f(x) = x^2 - 4x$ is increasing/decreasing and identify its relative maximums and minimums.


\newpage

### Find the intervals where a function is concave up/down and identify the inflection points of the function.

15. Use the methods of calculus to find the intervals where a function is concave up/down and identify the inflection points of the function $g(x) = 12 + 6x^2 -x^3$.


\newpage

### Use the second derivative test to identify the local maximums and minimums of a function.

16. Use the second derivative test to identify the local maximums and minimums of $f(x) =  - 8x^3 -x^4$.


\newpage

### Given information about a function (but not its equation), answer questions about the function, its first derivative, and its second derivative.

17. Suppose $f(x)$ is a function satisfying:

 * $f'(-2) = f'(0) = 0$,
 * $f'(x) > 0$ if $x < -2$ or $x > 0$
 * $f'(x) < 0$ if $-2 < x < 0$
 * $f''(x) > 0$ if $1 < x <3$
 * $f''(x) < 0$ if $x < 1$ or $x > 3$
 
a. Identify the critical points of $f(x)$ and classify each as a maximum or a minimum.
b. Identify the points of inflection of $f(x)$.
c. On which interval(s) is $f(x)$ concave up? Concave down?


\newpage

### Given a family of functions, answer questions about the function and its derivative.

18. Let $f(x) = x^2 + ax, where $a > 0$.

a. Find the critical numbers of $f$; your answer should be a formula in terms of $a$.
b. Compute $f''$ and find all *possible* points of inflection. You do not need to confirm whether each possibility is, in fact, a point of inflection.


\newpage

### Given a function and a closed interval, identify the absolute maximum and minimum on that interval.

19. Use the methods of calculus to find the absolute minimum and maximum of $g(x) = x^2 - 4x$ on the interval $[1,3]$.



\newpage

### Solve an applied optimization problem.

20. A farmer wishes to enclose a rectangular field with a fence. The cost of the fencing of the sides that run north-south is \$10/ft, while the cost of the east-west fence on the north side is \$7/foot, and the cost of the east-west fence along the south side is \$2/foot. If the farmer wants to spend \$700, determine the dimensions of the field that will maximize the enclosed area.
 


\newpage

### Solve a related rates problem.

21. A person is standing 350 feet away from a model rocket that is fired straight up in the air at a speed of 15 ft/s. At what rate is the distance between the person and the rocket increasing 20 seconds after liftoff?